Now in the last few lessons we learned about what it's like to make queries against this graph queue
all server that I've made for you you've seen what type of queries you have available as well as what
kind of data you're able to fetch.
But how do we actually bring this into our application.
Well that's exactly what we're going to do in the subsequent lessons from this lesson forward.
The first thing I want to point you towards is this Get hub repo so this repo actually contains the
code that we're going to use to start from.
This will be our starting point.
So inside of your resources just go to this.
You are all and I want you to clone down this repository.
Now this repository is going to be very similar to the Salem repository that you used before the context
API lesson the context API lesson mainly had one difference which I will show you.
And it's simply one new component that I added in here.
Other than that it's the exact same repo as the one you saw when you did the context API lessons.
I've removed the redux saga and I've removed the CSF Sanjay as the main reasons I did that is just because
what we're going to do is we're actually going to leverage the library that we're going to use to interact
with our graph Q server to handle our local state.
It's going to solve all of the problems in its own way.
That redux and context API solve.
The only difference is that here it leverages this graph QoL interface that we're going to see.
So if that sounds a little bit weird it is going to be a little bit different.
But I promise you that by the end of it you'll be convinced as to why it's a great service.
So again click that clone button copy that link and let's go back to our terminal.
Now go to the folder that you want to clone it into.
Make sure it's not another project folder and just run get clone and then paste that key in.
Now you can name it anything you want.
I'm going to name it graph Q Crown clothing graph.
Q L W L and we're gonna clone into it.
So let's just see into our new graph.
Your project and just open up this project and let me show you what new component it is that I've added.
So if you go into the source and you go into components you'll see that there's this new spinner component.
Now this beta component is just the spin our component that was inside of our with spin our higher order
component that we've been using to handle our loader states.
The only difference here is that I've simply removed away all of the higher order Components side of
it and just exposed the base spinner component itself.
That's all it is.
It's pretty much just two divs with some styling on it.
That's all it is now.
That's pretty much the only difference.
And the reason why we're going to see that I made this new component is because the library that we're
going to use to integrate our ReACT application so that it can work with graph QoL well is this library
called a Apollo client now.
Apollo is a great library with a great team behind it that has built all of these features that make
our lives much easier when it comes to working with graph.
Q Well because graft Q Well is still a pretty new technology.
So there is parts of it that are going to be really different but I promise you that by the end of it
you guys will understand how to work with it because the benefits are worth the slight complexity that
it will bring.
But let's first bring in this library and we'll talk more about what it can do for us as we build out
our code so we'll go back to your terminal and what you're going to include is you're going to include
three packages you're going to run a yarn ad and you're gonna say Apollo boost.
So with 1 p and two l's you're gonna say react Apollo and you're also gonna say graph Q well so make
sure there's no dash between the graph and the Q Will we're gonna include these three libraries and
then we're gonna run yarn again so that we make sure that we also include all of the other dependency
in our project.
So while this is being done let me talk a little bit about the Apollo client now one of the big things
that is great about Apollo is that when we query for things from our graph Q all server this client
will make sure to cache the data that we've fetched.
So let's say we fetch our collections data if we navigate back to our page and the request makes a new
query against our graph.
Q all for those collections again if none of the data has changed then graph Q is not going to make
the request.
It's simply just going to give us back the cached version of the code that it has because that way it
doesn't actually have to make an extra request especially if nothing's changed.
The other great thing is that if we used those items anywhere else inside of our application from that
main fetch.
So let's say we fetch all our collections anywhere where we use the one singular collection we will
not have to re fetch it from our database because we only have a version of the cached on our front.
So that's really good.
And the client helps manage that data.
Now let's actually work with it and we'll see more of what the benefits are.
Now I know what I said might seem also a little confusing but we'll definitely see it when we start
working with it.
First thing that we need to do is we need to go into our index touch us because we need to instantiate
the client itself the client being the Apollo client so we're going to import in a couple libraries.
The first thing we're going to bring in is the Apollo provider from react.
Apollo now this is very similar to the providers that we've already seen from both redux as well as
the providers that we wrote ourselves in the context API.
It just allows the rest of our application to be able to access the state that is stored on Apollo.
The other thing we're going to need is this thing called Create H TTP link from Apollo link HDTV.
Now this thing is what is going to let us actually connect our client to our specific endpoint that
I was telling you about.
So in our back and server it exposes one end point that we make all our queries against.
And this HTC P link is what we're going to use to establish that connection next you're going to import
in this thing called in memory cache from a Paul cache in memory in memory can't spell today.
And this is the thing that Apollo uses to actually cache the data that it fetches.
That I was telling you about so that it doesn't double cache or sorry it doesn't make double requests.
Right.
And it tries to be as optimal as it can about making requests and then keeping the data.
And finally we are going to import in the Apollo client itself and this is going to be from this library.
Apollo boost
while it's true that we only installed three libraries if you remember we installed react Apollo Apollo
boost and graph Q Well while graph calls a dependency that these two libraries depend on an Apollo boost
is actually a bundle of smaller libraries that the Apollo team has built.
That makes it easier for us including the link HDTV and the Apollo cache in memory.
So what we installed we installed Apollo boost was a bunch of smaller libraries that give us a bunch
of different functionalities that make our lives easier.
So we're actually going to use them and see how they help us set up our client.
So what we're gonna do is we are gonna first establish the connection to our backend so we're gonna
say concert H TTP link is equal to create each TTP link and this is a function that takes an object
as the argument the objects argument is going to be you are I and that property's value is going to
be H T T P S slash slash Crown clothing dot com and that's all it is.
This is pretty much that link that we were playing against in our playground.
It's also the same link that actually represents our end point that I exposed to you for you use against
so once you have your HDTV link we are going to also create our cache so our cash is going to be a new
object which we call on our new in memory cache which is a class and this cash object is something that
we're actually going to use to manage our data so you can kind of see it similar to a top level reducer.
It's kind of like just a object that we use as local storage for application after that.
What we're going to do is actually make the client so to do that we're gonna say const client equals
new Apollo client and we're going to pass into it an object and this object is going to take the properties
of link going to our new HDTV link.
So now it knows what to request to.
And then we're also going to say the cash goes to the cash.
So because it's already named Cash we can just use this shorthand which will set cash to our cash and
that's our client now we've just got to make sure to pass it into our Apollo provider which will wrap
our application and then give our application access to the context of the data that is stored inside
of Apollo as well as allow us to actually make requests with Apollo.
So we're gonna say Apollo provider
and inside is a property called client that we pass the client and now we've hooked it up.
But we can actually test the client before anything else just to make sure that it's all working.
So let's actually make a request.
The first thing we're gonna do is we're also going to import this thing called GQ Elle which is a function
from Apollo boost.
Now as you remember the shape that we're requesting for our data actually looks different from Jason.
So we actually have to have something that understands what this is.
So let's just go back to our application and we're going to make a request with the client itself.
We're gonna say client dot query so on the client there's actually both the mutation and the query parameters
that we can use in order to make either a request for data or a request to update data.
We're just going to use the query key and it's a method that takes a object and this object is going
to need the same structure of the key that we sent into our back in.
So if you remember we sent in query first.
Right.
So we'll say query which goes to and then here is where we're gonna use that GQ Elle tech.
So we're gonna say it's gonna be a GQ Well object.
Right.
And by wrapping it in GQ Well now we can type those graphical bindings that we had that we saw that
look like a Jason object.
So we're going to have those braces and we're literally pretty much just going to copy in whatever it
was that's here so we can even just use this one in fact right
and now what the query returns us back is a promise and the promise will resolve to the data if it managed
to fetch us this data successfully.
So we're just going to say dot then with the response and we're just going to console log.
The response and that's pretty much it.
If we go back to our application now we see that we've got it back.
We see that we got back this object and on the data with that Query name that we saw when we made the
request ourselves as well.
We have our object with our I.D. and the items on it.
So this is pretty much how we use the client in order to make requests and it's actually really easy
use if we were to manually just use the client but this library has a Apollo boost library actually
takes it a step further and it gives us access components that will handle loading an error states for
us which is why again we had our spinner component added into this project now in the next lesson we're
going to leverage this new Apollo client to make requests for the collections and then actually populate
some of our components with that data.
So we'll do that in the next lesson.